you
this lecture is about the using a time
series as context to potentially
discover causal topics in text in this
lecture we're going to continue
discussing contextual tabs mining in
particular we're going to look at the
time series as a context for analyzing
text to potentially discover causal
topics as usual let's start with the
motivation in this case we hope to use
text mining to understand the time
series here what you are seeing is Dow
Jones Industrial Average and start price
curves and you see a southern drop here
right so one would be interested in
knowing what might have caused the stock
market crash well if you know the
background and you might be able to
figure out if you look at timestamp or
there are other data that can help us
figure it out but the question here is
can we get some clothes about this from
the companion new screen and we have a
lot of news data that are generated
during that period so if you do that we
might actually discover the crash
actually happened at the time of
September 11 attack and that's the time
when there is a sudden rise of the topic
about the September 11 attacker in news
articles here's another scenario where
we want to analyze the presidential
election and this is the time seals that
are from a presidential prediction
market for example I why are trying to
market would have stops for each
candidate and if you believe one
candidate will win then you tend to buy
the stock of all that can date causing
the price of that candid to increase so
that's a nice way to actually do survey
of people's opinions about these
candidates now suppose you see a certain
drop of price for one candidate you
might also want to know what might have
caused the sudden drop or in social
science that you might be interested in
knowing what mattered in this
election what issues really matter
little people now again in this case we
can look at the companion news the
screen and ask you the question are
there any cruise in the new screen that
might provide insight about this so for
example we might discover the main king
of tax cut has has been increasing since
that point so maybe thats related to the
drop of the price so all these cases are
special cases of a general problem of
join the analysis of text and the time
series data to discover causal topics
the input in this case is a time series
plus text data that are produced in the
same time period the companion texas
stream and this is to see this is
different from the standard topic models
where we have just a passive collection
again that's why we said help i'm
serious here services comments now the
output that we want generator is the
topics whose coverage in the text of
stream has shown correlations with the
time series for example whenever the
public is managing the price tends to go
down etc now we call these topics of
causal topics of course they are not
strictly speaking causal topic so we are
never going to be able to verify whether
they are causal or there's a true causal
relationship yeah that's why we put
causal in quotation marks but at least
they are correlated topics that might
potentially explain the cause and humans
can certain it for the analyze such
topics to to understand that issue
better and the output is 0 would contain
topics just like in topic modeling but
we hope these topics are not just a
regular topics with these topics
certainly don't have to explain that
they are the best in text but rather
they have to explain the data in the
text meaning that they have to represent
a meaningful topics in text Samantha
Kaliko here in the topics but also more
importantly they should be correlated
with
external time series that is given as a
context so to understand how we solve
this problem let's first just to solve
the problem with a record atomic model
for example pasa and we apply this text
extremes and with some extending like a
CPR essay or contextual prsa then we can
discover these topics in the corruption
and also discover they are coverage over
time so one simple solution is to choose
the topics from this set that have the
strongest of the correlation with the
external time series but this approach
is not going to be very good why because
I will restricted to the topics that
were discovered by PRSA or Lda and that
means the choice of topics will be very
limited and we know these models try to
maximize the light role of the text data
so those talking's tend to be the major
topics that explain the text data where
and they are not necessarily correlated
with time series even forget the best
one the most correlated and the topics
might still not be so interesting from
cause of perspective so here in this
work site here a better approach it was
proposed and this approach is called
iterative causal topic model the idea is
to do a iterative adjustment of top
topics discovered by public models using
time series to induce a prior so here's
an illustration of how this world how
this works take the text stream as input
of an apply regular topic modeling to
generate a number of topics let's say
four topics shown here and then we're
going to use the external time series to
assess which topic is more causal
related or correlated with the external
time series so we can certainly rank
them and we might pick out that topic
wine and talk for are more correlated
and public to and topics we are not now
we could have stopped here and that
would be just like the simple ability
that I talked about earlier then we can
get these topics and call them cause all
topics but as I also explained
these topics are and neck are likely
very good because they are general
topics that we spend the whole tax
collection they are not necessary in the
best topics at the color or correlated
with our time series so what we can do
in this approach is to further zooming
the word level and we're going to look
into each word in the top-ranked the
world listed for each topic let's say we
take top 21 as the target examine we
know topic one is correlated with the
time series or is that this is the best
that we could get from this set of
topics so far and we're going to look at
the the words in this topic the top word
and if the topic is correlated with the
time series there must be some words
that are highly correlated with the time
series so here for example we might
discover w1 and w2 three are positively
correlated with time series but w to end
up before are negatively correlated so
as a topical and it's not good to mix
these words with different correlations
so we can then throw the Secretary's
words we are going to get all the red
words that indicate a positive
correlations w windup three and we're
going to also get another sub topic if
you if you want that represents the
negatively correlated words w to end up
before now these sub pop because all
these variations of topics based on the
correlation analysis are topics that are
still quite related to the original
topic the topic one but they are already
deviating because of the use of time
series information to buy us a selection
of words so they're in some sense well
we should expect so there some sense
more correlated with the time series
then the original topic one because the
topic one has mixed the world here we
separate them so each of these two sub
topics can be expected to be better
correlated with time series however they
may not be so coherent
cementery so the idea here is to go back
to top model by using these each as a
prior to further guide the topic
modeling and that's to say we ask our
topic models will now discover topics
that are very similar to each of these
two sub topics and this will cause a
bias toward more correlative topics with
the time series of course then we can
apply dropping models to get another
generation of topics and that can be
further ranked the based on the time
series to select the highly correlated
to the topics then we can further
analyze the component words in the topic
and then try to analyze word level
correlation and then get even more
correlated subtopics that can be further
fair into the process as prior to drive
the topical model discovery so this
whole process is is a heuristic way of
optimizing causality and coherence and
that's our ultimate goal right so here
you see the pure topic models will be
very good at the maximizing topical
coherence the topicals would be all
meaningful if we only use consolidate
the test or correlation measure then we
might get a set of words that are
strongly correlated with time series but
they may not necessarily anything they
might not be seen men they connected so
that would be at the other extreme on
the top now the ideal is to get a causal
topic that's sort I both in topical
coherence and also causal relation and
this apology can be regarded as a
alternate way to maximize both I'm
engines so when we apply the topic
models we're maximizing the coherence
but when we decomposes of having model
words in two sets of words that are
strongly various your honor correlated
with time series we select the most
strongly correlated woods with the time
series we are pushing the model back to
the causal by mention to make it a
better in causal scoring and then when
we apply the selected words as a prior
to guide the topic modeling
we again go back to optimize the
coherence because popular models we
ensure the next generation of topics to
be coherent and we can iterate iterate
and optimize in this way as shown on
this picture so the only I think
component that you haven't seen in such
a framework is how to measure the
causality because the rest is just
topping model so let's have a little bit
discussion of that so here we show that
the let's say we have a topic about
government response here and then who is
talking model we can get the coverage of
the topic over time so we have a time
series X sub T now we also have our
given a time series that represents
external information it's a noun text
time series y sub T it's a stock prices
now the question here is does xt cause
white or in other words we want to
measure the causality relation between
the two or maybe just measure the
college of the two there are many
measures that we can use in this
framework for example Pearson
correlation is a common a user make sure
and we had considered time lag here so
that we can try to capture causal
relation using somewhat the past data
that are in using the data in the past
to try to call it that with the data on
points on why that that represents the
future for example and by introducing
such lag we can hopefully capture some
causal relation by even using
correlation measures Mike Pearson
correlation but a commonly used to
measure for causality here is grandeur
cause I detest and the idea of this test
is actually quite simple basically
you're going to have autoregressive
model to use the history information on
why to predict itself and this is the
best we could do without any other
information so we're going to be able to
such a model and then we're going to add
some history information of X into such
a model to see if we can improve the
prediction of Y if we can
if we went do that with statistically
significant difference then we just say
X has some causal inference and y or
otherwise wouldn't have caused the
improvement of prediction of what if on
the other hand the difference is
insignificant and that would mean X does
not really have a causal relation with y
and so that's the basic idea now we
don't have time to explain this in
detail so you could read but you will
read this cited reference here to know
more about this measure it's very
frequently used measure as many
applications so next let's look at some
sample results generated by this
approach and here the data is in New
York Times and in the time period of
june 2003 december of 2011 and here the
time series we use the is stock prices
of two companies american airlines and
apple and ago he is to see if we inject
the some time series bias or time series
context whether we can actually get
topics that are wires towards these time
series imagine if we don't use any input
we don't use any contacts then the
topics from New York Times discover the
by PSA would be you know just general
topics that people talk about in news I
lose major topics in the newest band but
here you see these topics are indeed
biased toward each time series in
particular if you look at the underlying
the words here in the American Airlines
without and you see Airlines Airport air
United traded terrorism etc so it
clearly has topics and that are more
correlated with the external time series
on the right side you see some of the
topics are clearly related to Apple
right so you can see computer technology
software internet con web etc so that
just means the time series has
effectively served as a contact to
Tobias the discovery of topics from
another perspective these results help
us what people have talked about in each
case
so in the or not just the people what
people have talked about but what
awesome topics then might be correlated
with their stock prices and so these
topics can serve as starting point for
people to further look into the issues
and you'll find the true causal
relations here are some ugly results
from analyzing presidential election and
time series the time series there are
here is from Iowa electronic market and
that's a prediction market and the data
is the same New York Times from the may
2002 october two thousand ads for two
thousand presidential campaign election
now what you see here are the top three
words in significant topics from New
York Times and we look at these topics
and they are indeed are quite related to
the campaign actually hear the issues
are very much related to the important
issues of this presidential election now
here I should mention that the the text
data has been filtered by using only the
articles that mention these candidate
names and so it's a subset of these news
articles very different from the
previous experiment but the results here
clearly show that the approach can
uncover some important issues in that
presidential election so tax cut our
energy abortion and company are all
known to be important issues in that
presidential election and I was
supported by some literature in
political science and also I was
discussed in Wikipedia right so
basically the results show that the
approach can effectively discover
possibly causal topics based on the time
series data
so there are two suggested readings here
one is the paper about this iterative
topic modeling with time series feedback
where you can find more details about
how the supportive words and the second
one is reading about granule causality
test so in the end let's summarize the
discussion of text-based the prediction
now tax evasion prediction is generally
very useful for big data applications
that involve text because you can help
us infer new knowledge about the world
and the knowledge can go beyond what's
discussed in the text as a result they
can also support optimizing of our
decision making and this has widespread
applications text data is often combined
with numb text reader for prediction
those for this purpose the prediction
purpose we generally would like to
combine now text data and text layer
together as much crew as possible for
prediction and so as a result join the
analysis of text and non-text is very
necessary and it's also very useful then
when we analyze text data together with
numb text data we can see they can help
each other so numb text data provide a
context for mining text data and we
discussed a number of techniques for
contextual text mining and on the other
hand the text there are cows will help
interpret the patterns discover the from
nankatsu data and this is gold panning
annotation and in general this is a very
active research topic and there are
still new papers in published and there
are also many open candidates that have
to be solved